welcome everyone to this week's
ipld sync meeting it's october 12
2020 and as
every week we go over the stuff that
we've worked in the past
week and will work next week and then
discuss
any open items we might have
um i start with myself
and so um yeah so i spent a bit of time
not too much
on the wasm stuff and just to explain it
because i
said it almost every week but didn't
explain what this is about
and so the idea is that there are
read-only codecs compiled to wasm
um and the idea is that um
in order to be able to traverse id
structures you of course need to know
the codec so you can
for example even if you just want to
sync blocks you want to go through
all the stuff and go through the links
and then go to the next block and so on
but in order to do this you need to
understand the coding
and hopefully there will be thousands of
different codecs like plenty codecs
um but you have to understand them so
the idea is that if you create
at least a read-only codec and compile
it to wasm
an implementation that doesn't support
it natively could just use
of course just use a wasm runtime
and use that implementation to at least
be able to traverse something
um so it's so it's kind of like it could
be seen as like a
stepping stone if you want to have
um your traversal working but then you
want to
later on implement it natively but
there's a stepping stone you just
use the awesome stuff which is kind of
like compound with the hope that wasn't
is really
hopefully some at one point everywhere
and you can just use it in your
programming language
um and this is combined with looking
into stuff
um and it's um the
one of the most most promising things
in the wasm world where you want to
shuffle around
um types from one from the host language
into the
most runtime is interface types and they
change the spec
all the time and don't have an
implementation
um so the header implementation who's
changing the spec
what was the spec for the interface
types yeah the innova types yes
and so rustic or that that's not an
awesome thing that's a rust thing
that's a wasm thing so it's a it's an
awesome thing on how to
generally spoken to interact with
um boundaries between the host language
and the
wasm runtime itself
um so you can kind of like expose
strings on a higher level
and stuff like this and it's like it was
super complicated it got just recently
so there's a power pin to make it
simpler
and also based on other other awesome
proposals so it's really like it's
really really hard on the road so it's
like it's based on three other proposals
that
haven't an implementation yet so yeah
long way to go
um so we can't wait this long for this
um
so the idea is to just use um just yeah
some other
transport so for example currently
what the wasn't buying
gem is using which is a tool for
binding creating bindings from wasm to
javascript
they just exchange it with a serialized
json
if you have objects which is obviously
not such a good idea
or like it's super error prone and not
fast at all and so on
so we probably use something else and
then
also michael prototyped simple dag
um and i sadly didn't find the time for
doing this properly today but i
don't want to wait till next week so
eric actually brought up
when i with the conversation with him
that like how is this different from
from seaborn and then i thought oh yeah
it's actually quite similar and also the
changes i proposed
so what i did is and i want to have it
finished today but i didn't
i've at least coded the encoder so i
used michael's code
and just make simple dag
using sieber instead of simple dag
and surprise surprise the code got even
less
and yeah so i don't have the encoder yet
but like it's a really a div of like
five lines
and instead of simple it spits out c
board
and so i'm working on this as a proof of
concept to show that
if you really use strict c bar like like
the x zebor in a really strict way it's
super easy to implement
which is kind of connected to what rod
did um with his
making the deck sea was big stricter
um so if you have this strictness yeah
it's super simple
there's still variances though in in
seabor for like
the length of collections and things
like that isn't there
basically it's even simpler so you have
so you have less code because you don't
need variance because like
seaboard does its own version of balance
kind of so it's really like
anyway i will finish wouldn't that be
more code
implemented now no like
i would just like i would just finish it
and just basically it's
really to see that like what are the
differences and like it's yeah it's
it's kind of mind-blowing as i said i
hope
i had it for today but i didn't finish
but
yeah it's super fun and we'll see and
can use this as
uh for further discussions
but what i think about doing is i will
probably use
this stricter dex keyboard as a basis
for the wasm
exchange format but we'll see um
and what i also will do is because i
even got asked today
on the rast ipfs chatroom about what's
the deal with rust marty hash and the
release and so on
so i want to really get the rust
materials release out
um i will make prs for a cd
p2p and live ipod just to make sure it
works
and if it works then i do the release
and then
update the prs and to my surprise
um li p2p was just
using multihedge just at the single
place
like a half a year ago and now they use
it multiple places so it's more work
than i thought
but still yeah it should be straight
forward and
i hope to get this done this week
yeah that's all i have
next on my list is danielle
no you can't hear him
just double checking oh no you're really
quiet you're really quiet you're getting
picked up by like a
mic that's somewhere far away or
something is it better now
no
okay i'll go later but then i'm sorry oh
there you go there you go
just came out switched yeah what
i didn't do anything yeah yeah that was
fun that's perfect now
you are being hacked please stand back
it's bluetooth
you're getting linux that's what's
happening like you're just this is what
happens when you run that
i literally moved the volume up a little
bit and then back down
anyway if it's fine i'll just go sorry
um so i was working on on the
um hand adl again and i got the name
wrong in the
in the notes but i'll fix that so
essentially it kind of works now but it
has a ton of to-do's
it essentially only supports the basics
with bytes as values so i'm going to be
working on fixing that
i also spoke to eric a little bit about
how we could extend the node api a
little bit to support deleting entries
because
the basic node interface is really only
about reading stuff
such as you know lookup by string and so
on there's also a call tomorrow which is
going to be in 24 hours and 20 minutes
um about some changes to the ham spec
that we've been talking about for a
while such as i think one of them was
merged already
changing the hash algorithm from a
string to an integer
but there are a bunch of others that we
spoke about but we didn't actually
commit to doing so
hopefully in the call we can actually
file issues and get them done
and then lastly i really want to get
going on the hand compliance tests so
that i can reuse those with
with rod instead of copy pasting tests
from javascript
uh i'm just redoing work between the two
of us it doesn't have to start
immediately but
i think the sooner i can help with that
the better long term
and yeah that's pretty much it
thanks next on my list is michael
give me a minute to find the doc like
lost it somehow
well let me just move on i gotta go back
to the damn thing i've got it i've got
it i've got it i got it
okay all right um okay i
i finished up the multi-format block
interface
um so we've been talking about moving
the
the ipld block interface over for a
while um
in a lot of conversations with gozala we
kind of realized that we could pair this
down to something that was small enough
that it could actually be a base type in
multi formats and not
not something higher level there doesn't
need to be a codec registry there
doesn't need to be all this other stuff
um so we got that down to like a really
clean
tiny interface now that i really like um
and it's really kind of open for
other people to build other
implementations of it that are still
totally compatible and compliant
and other utility libraries on top which
maybe the ipld block interface just
becomes
um but after i got that in um
with a lot of help from gozala i've i
wanted to dog food it was something
and i had this little idea in my head
for like a little key value store
that's basically just it's just sugar on
top of ham
like there's nothing there's no fancy
ipod work other than just a hand
but it's kind of interesting to just
explore this space of well what does it
look like to just make
sugar and pretty javascript apis on top
of
creating a little key value store that's
enhanced um
and that actually turned out to be like
a really cool little library that i'm
really happy with
um so one the new block interface is
quite nice i do like it uh it worked
really well for this case
and also like this is something that we
should probably just port to
other languages because it without any
new
work beyond a hampton so once we have a
hampton working in a language
um like we're good once we we'll do the
hampton we can actually like
you know create a little database and
start to think about like okay what
would
cool sugar look like and go or in rust
for you know working with links
or for um you know mutating a database
like how do you want to expose that and
what do you return and things like that
so um there's a little library called
dkv uh distributed key value store
and it's just on ipfs so you bring up an
ipfs instance you pass it in and then
you just have like a nice to work with
key value store um on top of ipfs it's
pretty sweet
um and yeah now i'm i'm still sort of
figuring out like
what the ipld block interface should be
and if we need it or not
there's certainly some stuff that it
used to do that we don't do anymore
um you know there was a lot of lazy
loading
stuff there was some safety stuff in
there that we did for immutability
so i'll probably create some new
interfaces in there i just want to
actually have these
problems and really be dealing with them
when i go to do that and not kind of
hypothesizing about what i might need to
do
i was kind of impressed that i made it
through the whole dkb library without
really needing
anything other than the base um so i
think i'll probably
go through and update some of dag db and
and there i'll probably find some cases
where like i do want
a little bit more utility on top of the
the base types and
and that's what the ipod block library
will become
and the saga thanks next is eric
so i'm going to break my recent trend
and just talk about doc stock stock
stocks
and then this last week we had a good
number of us here on this call a new
meeting
to try to synchronously push through
some more docs and spec stuff
and that's probably just a ball that
we're going to start to get rolling
slowly but i hope
more so in the future um most of what
i'm going to try to do in the
coming week is do more work on
enumerating
documentation that we know we need
because there is plenty of it
and then figure out how we're going to
track that together
probably just starting with more github
issues but it seems like maybe we're
going to need some
tagging mechanisms to break these things
down more i don't know we'll see
this week i'm also working on a more
full roundup of all of the
things we've talked about in the area of
string specifications
um we've had a lot of discussions to
date about string specifications and
all of the possibly entangled components
it touches on
everything from how we talk about the
definition of maps
to of course the basics of like where
values actually appear in leaf nodes of
large blocks of data
to how we path over things and just
generally what our interfaces look and
feel like in various languages and what
our range of future support
is so it's um a really big hairy problem
um and i'm finding that i've i've
published exploration reports as
gifts i just found one that was
published in like june and it actually
has content
dated from like the third month of the
year this has been a really long rolling
discussion so um hopefully some more
documents will come out soon and they
can
lead us towards a resolution i hope
we'll see
um that's my week
thanks next one is ron
okay um so last
last week was fairly light for me um
there was some holiday stuff in there uh
but what have i got uh okay so i did a
little bit more on the
go dog pb stuff this is um partly an
exercise
in maki using
what's in my head about dagpb while i
have it
for the go stuff and partly uh
additional familiarization work with
ipld prime just to make sure i'm
you know at least attempting to keep up
with the stuff that's going on and this
is the
how do you write a codec in ipld prime
is quite an interesting exercise
for me at least anyway so um that's been
educational and there's stuff about
uh with dag pb not being like
um json which are these
codecs that can support the whole data
model and so they can instantiate
nodes of all the different types dag pb
supports a particular shape so
essentially you have to instantiate
into a schema driven set of nodes
and the other way in as well you have to
only accept the
that type of of data
so just learning about how to transform
into the
schema driven stuff and back again and
use that for validation rather than
rather than writing all the validation
again because it's already in the schema
it's already in the schema gen code and
so
my first attempt was started writing all
these validation rules and i was
thinking hang on a minute
this is all done i don't want to rewrite
this stuff this is done by the code gen
so
i was pointed in the right direction on
that i think um
i i did some weekend hacking on my
seaboard handling library i
um michael pointed out to me last week
that
ghazala is going to be soon he's
volunteered to replace the
ipld stack in ipfs with our new stuff
and um and then so there's an
opportunity there a little window of
opportunity to get in our uh
as much of our new pieces that we want
and one of the pieces is
the seaborce which which the more i dig
into
our seaboard handling the more you know
dark corners i'm going to cover um as i
shared yesterday in slack with
all these superpowers that our
javascript seaboard library has that it
really shouldn't do
um and so um
i i just was tinkering that on the
weekend and that's actually really close
to
um just being able to drop in into our
sibor
daxybore library so i've just got to do
a little bit of cleanup work around the
handling of the
um the final bite chunks of encoded
forms
um but in terms of its paneling of all
the seaboard we care about
the basics are all there i just need to
go back and
deal with some of the strictness stuff
that we've been
agreeing on so that's actually in a good
place
which is good and um i don't really know
what the priority level for that is but
i imagine gizelle is getting itchy to
start
pulling apart ipfs and putting this new
stuff in
so she had a call so today in the
core implementations group uh gozola
wasn't there but alex was there and alex
said that he wanted
he he does want to move to the new stuff
but
he wants some help and i said like yeah
like goes all i want to do too
we should all just have a call um so i
think i'll probably pitch in a little
bit too
um but it'll be like kind of a group
effort with because all and myself and
alex um
right that will already pull in the new
dagpb stuff which is nice so it'll be
to give that some real world exercising
would be really good because
i'm doing the same stuff in go and it
would be nice to uncover
problems sooner than later with real
world data
because there's just so much potential
for rage cases out there that
be nice to find um
so i had a discussion with um
there's been some pull requests coming
in on some of the go libraries that
overlap with our work
and they're just going unanswered and
this is partly
mainly due to the fact that the go ipfs
team has
been shrunk to like one or two people um
and leadership is no longer there like
the
original leadership is no longer there
so these pull requests like getting the
dag
dag kodak into
go see id you know there's crickets
so um i just had a conversation with the
go folks about that about
ownership and um what i really wanted
was for a dean to step up and say yeah
i'll
just take over this stuff but he's you
know obviously doesn't really want to
um but where we landed was he identified
uh five libraries that he thought clear
clearly ipad ld um i don't really want
us to take full responsibility for these
things because we're trying to move to a
new stack and
obviously eric doesn't want to care
about them either
but i also don't want to see these
things go
stale for open source contributors
because that's nothing worse than
showing up with
lots of work and not getting anything
done not getting any responses
um so i suggested that um we could take
on some basic
mobile maintenance work at least
responding to pr's
maybe doing some basic things like maybe
switching the github actions for some of
these things because
right now there's a pull request i
literally technically cannot merge even
though i have
commit access because the repo rules
stop it from
merging unless all of the checks have
been passed and one of them is the code
calf check
which is failing for some unknown reason
that nobody can fix without like super
you just re-run it a few times and
eventually it'll
yeah so i can't because i've tried rerun
and then i
and it doesn't do anything and then i go
to the details page and says you don't
have access to this so i can't rerun
so i told the contributor i said okay
just just refresh the commit and push it
again to trigger it again
and it won't trigger so we're just
locked in this state of nothingness so
i'm gonna
ping it in about i was just doing that
now just pinging it into which repo
the go it's ghost cid um
pull request
uh what is this one one two
if you have access that would be
wonderful
so a dean thinks that we that he'll
he'll have
um he might be able to
start working on updating go ipfs to god
please prime
in q1 um and i mentioned that
uh peter and eric had looked at that um
and had you know put together like a
whole graph of where things were going
up before everything got moved around in
terms of people and priorities so
um he made ping y'all about that
um i i and he also wanted
better github actions uh stuff and
i sent daniel his way he's right as well
so
i've already pulled daniel into some
stuff there with um uh
the ghost cid in particular to i've been
pulling daniel into
review go code um but um
with go cid like the test wouldn't even
run on go 1.15
um so just pull requests into go cid to
update that just a minor fix
and but at the same time be nice to just
update the test run
but so that the dependencies of these
things are really interesting so
like go cid is used by ipld prime i
don't know if there's any
thought of replacing them in the future
i don't know if
that's necessary but this thing seems
like it's going to happen
sorry uh yes i
may even have active drafts uh it's just
a terrifying thing to actually launch
into because of a high degree of
dependency it's
uh unclear if that would actually be a
smooth idea
we're doing it in the javascript one too
and it's super it's gonna be super
painful
like i mean we're swapping out a type
that gets passed around that you don't
even import
like it's it's it's the worst thing to
update
yeah now now it's going to be scary and
go too because
i know we've already had conversations
in the go ipfs implementation details
where
used as map keys in some of the
internals as well and so like
how it interacts with even garbage
collection and things like this is
actually pretty
uh whether pointer quality works also
relevant
it's uh it's hairy it's very airy
and then we've got those questions about
that dana was raising about codex
and having constants for some of these
codecs um currently they're split
between
like we've got codecs in go cid and
hash constants in i think it's go
multihash
you know it sort of sort of makes sense
but yeah there's room for revisiting
some of these things
but the i just i don't see you a way to
properly deprecate most of these things
anyway
like even now go merkel dag is used by
go ipld prime proto
to do its protobus for far coin you know
going merkeldag is one of the most
ancient parts of this
i think um and yet it's still a critical
path for active work and
while i have a new gop dagpb stuff that
could potentially replace that
it's one of these very sensitive ancient
structures that you sort of don't just
want to
trivially swap out with some new code so
um
and go up in the format and go up your
seaboard these things that they show up
everywhere um every time iple is touched
in go
these things are pulled in for creating
blocks
they're in every test fixture um like
the
car library the leans on these go car
lend on all of these things
really deeply um so
they're not going away but they need to
be cared for in a way that doesn't make
them look like they're abandonware and
so that's my main concern here
so i think i think we're at it's just an
agreement
that uh the ipld team and i'm willing to
put my hand up for this as
the primary person because i know eric
doesn't want to and daniel i hope will
participate as well we'll take some role
in just making them at least look like
they're not abandonware so if people are
putting pull requests in issues
then at least we'll show up and we've
been taking a similar role a similar
attack with multi-formats at the moment
we've been a little bit active in
multi-formats but mostly it's just
making sure this thing doesn't look like
it's dead so there's that
um now i yesterday i wrote up a um i did
a brain dump of my my stack my mental
stack of where i'm at and what i'm doing
because i feel like i keep on showing up
and doing these things that look random
but it's not it's not random um
there is actually a method to madness of
what i'm doing and it still all does go
back to this whole test fixture plan
um so i'll just quickly give you my
stack my mental stack
and that and i literally have this in my
head this is this there's a stack and
i'm sort of trying to unwind it but then
i sort of go down again and
and then i find something else that sort
of lies in there
um okay so the test fixture thing that
one of the top line items is
is car files and car files are not
absolutely essential for
getting this stuff done it's just that
car files are a really
nice part of it because they allow you
to bundle your fixed
fixtures but also bundle additional data
that might contribute to your test
running
so if you've got a setup environment you
need to start from a particular state
you can just put them all in a car file
so car files are like this nice
enclosure for having this thing running
so i just wanted to get car files
running but
the javascript car file library is um
was pinned onto this uh javascript stack
that the michael's initial rewrite of
the
stack and that has now been blown away
with gazala and michael's new stuff
and so it's like there's a rewrite
needed but at the same time the whole
interface has just been garbage
i tried to use the the data store
interface
interface that the all the old
javascript stuff was using and it's just
such a terrible fit and everything feels
clunky and it makes the internal clunky
so at the same time i was working with
gaza to i have been this is still an
active project this again is in my stack
of designing new interfaces to generic
block storage um and sort of
working on this space of where you put
blocks and how you want to interact with
them
the car library is a useful first case
for that
but the same sort of interfaces would be
rolled out to other block storage
mechanisms so trying to get that right
and we have we have a pretty good plan
and i've implemented most of it
in that process that all of my test
fixtures for
the car library they sort of mirror
what's going on in the go
car library and they pull in all these
codecs to do
like just to try out different codecs
and dag pb has been the standout problem
in that because dag pb has not been
updated to any of the new stack
in javascript it's like we're still
using this we have been using this
ancient dag pb stuff that nobody has
wanted to touch
so i i decided to touch that which is
how i ended up in dag pb
which is how i discovered that it was a
much
bigger rabbit hole than i thought it was
it was in in the beginning
um which resulted in all those the spec
changes for dag pb and the strictness
stuff and then
eventually a rewrite all the way down to
the encoding and decoding
and we now have a new dag pb javascript
codec in that we can use and then
while i'm at that i've been doing the go
side as well because it's one of those
things where it's in your head
and i'm going to lose it if i don't work
on it so
that's why i've been working on the go
dag pb stuff not because it's critical
path but simply because
i'm in there and it'd be nice to have
that
done and also looking at dag now go ipld
prime proto
which has quickly become critical path
for far coin
still using the old dagp stuff in go
which has all of these strictness
problems which
has all of these ways that you can
there's almost infinite ways you can use
do same data different cid for dag pv
so it'd just be really nice to sort that
out
so that's one of the reasons i'm on deck
bb
um and then at the same time it's this
you know while i'm there
trying my hand at go ipld prime codex
that stuff's not super critical but it's
sort of part of that stack
um and i'm trying to unwind that
um the other thing is i i
i need jason to work for this stuff and
i just assume that
jason is good ready to use um which is
of course naive
of course now i know that it's naive
because i want to be able to author
these things in doug jason and i also
would really like to be able to have
simplified versions of these things that
are just dag json like you can dump in
json into a test file and it just and
you can copy and paste
json and what would be really nice is
also a
a loose form of jason um and i was i've
been throwing around the idea of a dog
jason pretty
which is a pretty printed dag jason that
actually would look nice in tests
um but it's a agreed codec that works
across our different stacks
that is is fairly easy to implement
in theory um so it's anyway so it turns
out that it's not
it's not at all straightforward so this
is another reason to be in the codec
layer of go
so what i've learned is so go
the go jason doesn't yet support bytes
which is kind of critical for this stuff
eric
did actually start work on this and that
resulted in some
spec questions um the two big expect
questions one of which i'd like to be
able to resolve today
is about um this tokenization thing
about
you've got to get deep into the maps in
order to determine whether or not you're
dealing with bytes and
when you find that you're not dealing
with it because you've got some
extraneous property or something's not
quite right
do you have to reuse all those tokens or
can you reject the block at that point
because it's not properly formed
in the javascript we just effectively
rewind and reuse
and say oh that's not bytes but i'll
interpret that as just data model map
in map um in go it's more complicated
because you're dealing with
tokenization and eric's been buffering i
think it's six tokens
and it's it's a matter of what you what
you do with those six tokens when you
find
this at the sixth element that it's not
right
do you have to then unwind and then
reuse them properly
or do you get to say nah that's garbage
reject that's an interesting question
that needs resolving i don't really want
to resolve that today because it's
complicated
um what i would like to resolve is this
other question of
[Music]
multi-base and base64 so eric's
initial implementation was just doing
base64 encoding
the javascript implementation does
base64 with a multi-base prefix
and the discussion we've been having on
the specs repo is
why do we have a multi-base prefix in
there
um and i'd like to propose that we don't
have a multi-base prefix that we just do
base64
and ditch multi-base because there's no
good reason for it unless we think we're
going to
add different bases in there which then
blows away the whole
same data that once same codec for
same data thing like we can't vary the
base
it just has to be base64. yeah
there was that discussion actually is on
github that happened that didn't happen
somewhere else so
you should be able to find that thread
um i honestly don't think that we
discussed it that much
we spent most of the time discussing
what the multi-base
should be for cid and it was just sort
of like oh yeah we'll do multi-base 64.
i don't remember why we felt it was
important to do the prefix in there
but that that was actually a change that
was made yeah
like i i think i did the change if i
recall correctly so i was in favor of
using
multi-base but yeah i don't think it's a
good idea anymore
so so i also can't can't recall why but
i basically i guess i thought well why
not using
multi-base for it but i think yeah the
the argument that we
so i think multi-base makes it really
make sense if you
want to use different multi-bases
obviously
but in this case we explicitly don't
want to like it's
it's essentially the point that you
don't want to see any other
multi-base there so the prefix just
doesn't make sense
so i agree with just use base64 encoding
and
without the prefix
okay i would like to propose that we go
ahead and make that change to the
json spec i don't know what this impacts
because is anything actually using
jason for anything serious or is are we
just treating it as a toy everywhere
yeah so it's not you're going to find
out what is using at the moment you
publish this
there's definitely something there
that's critically depends on it but you
will never know
until then this is how this is how go
works now
so it won't break anything stuff um i
think it it might break
it might break the rust frycoin
um test stuff but i will check up with
austin to make sure it like
like i am happy to provide a pr fixing
this so it's like it's not a video like
it's
yeah yeah and the other thing the other
thing that's not in my list there is the
this white space handling in go that's
not that needs to be cleaned up as well
um so just basically we need
go work here so so my proposal is we get
these things sorted out so the
multi-base thing let's do that in the
specs repo
the tokenization thing i'd like to maybe
to do some more exploration on that and
um my suggestion is daniel because
you're relying on me to get a lot of
this stuff done
maybe something that you could shift to
is helping me get
go dag jason up to spec and
because your expertise is also in json
so this seems like it's perfect for you
um get that up to spec and so that we
can have we have
we have an implementation that we know
is one-to-one
between the languages and then we can
use this as a because
one of the things i'd like to do with
these test fixtures is also test our
codecs with them
um and if we have no codec like none of
our codecs agree
tag pb is the closest codec that agrees
between our languages right now
but nothing else agrees and so
we need to sort this stuff out so that's
my suggestion
if you fix the the white space stuff
then i think that also ends up fixing
your tokenization problem
because then you can just treat the
entire prefix before it as the token
right so it's not so if you see an open
bracket you just
check if the rest of it is open bracket
slash
blah blah blah base64 and then that just
because that whole
section of bytes just becomes the entire
token for saying what is base64
yeah it's not quite that simple because
there's a stack of there's a stack of
interconnected pieces here where you've
got to reach down to a peak
um but my my suggestion is that this
might be something that that daniel can
look at
um the complication of doing that kind
of pick because yeah that's a nice
solution but
we've got layering concerns here where
these token that tokens are being
embedded from
refund right down deep and so
to do a peek you need to go right down
into the stack
and it's sort of overriding this this
layering which is complicated so
this might be something for daniel to
look at maybe maybe unwinding them is
not going to be hard it just requires a
little bit of a refactor but i know
i don't think eric really wants to be
touching this i think eric you you threw
that branch up in rage and just
moved on didn't you so um
yes there's a rage branch that this is
found in
that um maybe daniel can have a look at
it's it's just frustrating to work on
something
this much when we're like and still
don't use it
like at the end of the day we're like
and still please don't really use this
for things
because it's still even if it worked
really well it would be really bad
i would i actually can see a lot of
places where i would really want to use
it and it's and it's things like test
fixtures
debugging and printing stuff out to the
console
um it it it serves really well as a
thing that we can look at and understand
now the bytes and the cids are a problem
but it's at least something um so
yeah anyway
that's me thanks for bearing with me
thanks and next one is
peter yes i have stuff to say
uh by the way i love how your short week
i was
busy with the kids turns into you know
weekend work as well i know uh
yeah so um uh just a comment before i
dive into my stuff
um the reason me and eric didn't get
anywhere with ltd prime in ipfs it's not
because other stuff came up
uh it's because it's like
really tricky to move anything
anywhere exactly because what you're
describing that everything is depending
on everything and
all of that is super gnarly and so on
and so forth so
on that note uh what i worked i peel
this
on this weekend actually because i'm
doing i don't have time for that
is to get uh an actual lotus on the
actual
test net running against an actual sql
database sqlite in this case
so i literally have something that syncs
keeps the chain
does everything correctly uh stops
starts
you know exports and so on and so forth
uh this is
essentially uh my gateway to give you
guys a chain
because nothing else scales to
what we need uh the sentinel team is
having the
very same problems and hopefully
actually some some of this
work will be useful we already is
adapting some of it
um the problem is this uh even the
very recent state of basically finality
which is 900 blocks
turns into 17 million
blocks just for you know just for
basically about seven hours
of state then that chain i haven't
imported anywhere yet but it's going to
be another opening to
two orders of magnitude more than that
which means that
stuff like the s3 datastore is out
i just cannot you know talk with s3 that
quickly
additionally between the
chain store block store and the actual
badger data store
underneath there are three block store
wrappers
on top of four data store wrappers that
all wrap each other with different
pieces
so i basically went oh
michael it gets so much better so i went
like okay
i just need a blog store here that's all
i need and i literally need my blogs
so how hard can it be it's five
methods to implement this interface so
the first method
is uh list every single block that you
have
no pagination no limits nothing and this
is something that needs to run on every
startup of lotus
regardless of how big the chain is so
that's that's number one
uh that was a little bit difficult to to
to
to figure out with transactions and
stuff like that and locking but you know
that that's not working super slow still
and
i'll have to bring it up with lotus
after after uh after we launch like how
we sh
we stop you know scanning the entire
thing basically that's better
do you say there's 700 million blocks
yes
yes so they lo they load 700 million
block ideas
synchronously it's a channel
it's a channel no no no no
no it's a channel but until this channel
is exhausted your api does not come up
okay so it doesn't it doesn't consume
memory for 700 million blocks though
it
yes it could be worse everything can be
worse that's true
well i'm just getting started so uh okay
you stream them in
uh you do stuff with them uh and i'll
get back to this myth in a moment
uh so then it took me like almost six
hours together like why my
stuff doesn't work because it's just a
block store you just have you know a
column for the key
and account for the data and nothing
works
it turns out if you uh recall i
mentioned that there is like
a bunch of layers and the bottom layer
along the bottom layers
is the ipfs datastore if you remember
there was way back
a conversation about like well we're not
going to be using cids we're going to
use multihashes to look up stuff
filecoin expects and it's in one of its
block stores to find
the same block to put it as a c board
and get it out as raw
or vice versa so if you write
a block store that is cid aware
nothing works you have to write your
blog store to be multicast aware
because our recent our rights use a
different key
and told them on the multicast matches
now
this thing that uh i was talking about
that stream stuff
out uh it actually doesn't have
uh like the normal block store doesn't
even have this coded information so you
stream out cids by just slapping like
raw on all of them
regardless of how they came in the
into the block store originally so this
list everything lists rossi ideas but
when you store and when you retrieve you
might be
getting sibo or you might not so there
is some comment in
in the in the links that i left about
this as well
now there is another problem uh
the uh hold up uh
what what was the third thing um
right uh so right so
i already covered this uh the last thing
is that
the the store is basically
not exactly transactional that you
use you call put
all of this but while it is being put
you actually expect dirty leads to work
if you use a real transaction nothing
works again because
parts of falcon parts of lotus will not
see the paths that they just wrote in
the post
so all that to say uh yeah
we essentially have a change that is
absolutely dependent on
multicast comparison right now uh and
i'm not even sure we'll be able to
unwind this correctly
but that's my exploration report
okay so so in order to fix that then
every storage interface has to basically
cache the pending puts for any gets
until the transaction is complete so
that it can service those
without actually talking to the data
store
uh well that order if you use something
like sql you just turn on phantom reads
and again it might be
else girls sqlite specific that my login
wasn't correct
uh because it's like really difficult to
get it even to run
but the moment i turned on like just you
know do phantom reads it was he was
happy after that
okay yeah and
yeah uh having to do with the thing
about batches
being done is transactions in a way that
they don't need to be
oh whale is on badger right it seems
like a thing they're trying to
deal with performance stuff on and yeah
so
yeah yeah so batches in badger are not
transactions batches and badger are
basically please don't have seen
for these 100 blocks and but
they have been being implemented as
transactions
at some layer yeah that we're trying to
get rid of now
yep that just seems like uh like
bad yes
that's that's a pity
like i don't know but it was new and
shiny for a while so
i just i just don't like it doesn't seem
like it does the things that you
would want a database of that layer to
do
i don't know um yeah
and the best part yeah the best part is
that lotus you know still has some
memory issues here and there so whenever
you
own a lotus you kill nina badger which
means that you know we have about 20
percent chance that you destroy it and
yeah we have
a number of people in falcons like
basically say okay so you go
to this director you delete this stuff
you sync your chain from here again
that's normal operation
these are just all problems that we
fixed a long time ago
like like these are gone in so many
libraries like in leveldb
and sqlite and like everything that
operates at this level
like we we solve this in the transaction
architecture i don't know how
we went this far backwards so quickly
it doesn't really make a lot of sense to
me but whatever
no no c go michael no c go c go is civil
rest is fine but single is civil
okay so we're working around the c
bindings in the language
except we still have to have them right
well well because because bl a quick bls
for the bls library that builds only on
a recent intel or an amd you can't even
build it on a macbook still
without without special flags that but
that's fine
someone done level dv and rough
um so peter i guess relating to that i i
don't know if you've looked at the car
block store interface that i packed
together
um to directly use the car as a
read-only block store and put an index
at the end of it
i did a little bit more on that last
weekend i have a b
tree based index as well as just using a
dumb map
if i have a sorted list of all the sids
to their
bite offsets in the car file as the
index that i use
the index is actually a little bit
bigger which i wasn't expecting compared
to
uh just using goes basic map
type of mapping sids to index and maybe
that's because it compresses it or
something i don't know
um but look up seem similar speed maybe
a little faster arguably
um on the b3 lookups so maybe that's
better
awesome you can do either um so i i mean
i i don't know if you're
expecting to be passing around like if
you prefer sql light as the snapshot
things
uh it feels like having multiple things
using the sql light or sql is going to
be
even more dangerous and broken and
painful um
so my use case is actually a little bit
different because i need to be
to have something that continuously
updates stuff correctly without shutting
anything down and that's basically where
uh in
in the final version of this there will
be a postgres that is being run again
against which a lotus runs and then
other things
read into that view as many times as
they want and basically i can even spin
up this
uh like snap or
well they're not exactly snapshots
because this store just keeps growing
as the lotus runs are the other lotuses
and thing
like i mean you can't run another lotus
against it right because then the other
lotus will get very confused no
you can buy this uh
stuff without without turning on the
actual demon button in the networking
that i just linked
where you basically just created this
offline state
yeah yeah
it totally runs against the read-only
database i i have tried this multiple
times
okay it doesn't take right
like has anyone else tried like well i
mean i
i i've done a lot of a lot of stuff in
this direction actually like for
leads i stopped passing that so i was i
was delving into this i saw that there
were
basic places where you could have a
read-only repo and then there was just
really nothing using that anywhere so
someone had thought about it but
there really wasn't much uh proof of
this being a viable solution
um but if if you've gotten it to start
up and be happy with that that's awesome
um the other thing that we were talking
about very briefly when we were
considering our options last week on
sentinel
was could we just run lotus on like a
zfs or some sort of
file system with snapshots and then use
the file system snapshot mechanism to
save you know a consistent snapshot and
use that as a read-only view
of the badger or whatever data store
while the lotus keeps going i think
that's probably
potentially a path of really not too bad
resistance but it does mean
everything's on the same node
uh and uh for everybody else on the call
why this is important actually
there's another thing in lotus where
whenever you make an api call there is
literally a global lock it freezes
everything else
so if you hit the api too much you
lose sync with the chain because cannot
catch up so that's another thing that's
the sentient folks are working against
and which i'm also working against
for the slingshot competition because i
need a view
that also hits the api relatively
quickly but i need to like produce it
some other way without losing things so
that was
that that all basically came together in
this like i'm just going to make it
an sql and yeah yeah
we only have five minutes left and
there was a question from johnny about
um
the the which determined this thing
mapping order we use for um taxi bar
yeah we talked about this last week and
just touched about that there are many
and a lot of people just cut and paste
but
so i'm actually finalizing the spec and
there's a pull request for the seabor
and uh representation of the did
document
and i want to make sure it's in aligned
with what the
determinant is ordering that is already
existing in ipld
yes so the problem is that we currently
use
the ordering that the current
taxi bar spec proposes with the
um first the i can't be called i think
first the length
and then the rest um but i think
like we tend to like i would like to
change it
so we haven't discussed it yet but i
totally would want to do the normal like
what everyone does like basically just
mem compare sword order basically
um so i'm not sure if it's a good idea
to put in there the
current order that we use because like i
like
i for myself would like to change this i
don't know what others think about the
seaboard
map key order well and is the spec
itself changing like i know you pasted
it
changed but is like the canonical
seaboard moving to the other one
as well because i think the one that we
picked was because it was the canonical
one
well i think canonical is like we talked
about last week is up to the
implementers
of what you mean by canonical and as
long as you specify it in your spec
then it's canonical as you determined it
so i'm writing this back and so
they're they want to close it within the
next week or so to actually get the
candidate recommendation so
i want to make sure that i'm not
shooting myself in the foot and that
it's totally in line so i have to do
minimal processing to get ipld
in in conformant with what i just wrote
and i pulled it out of
the air as far as what i copied and
pasted from the
uh 749 and of course the the draft
version they're not accepting it it's
not normative
so uh but i i can specify whatever i
want i want to make sure that it's like
if we are moving towards a different
representation then actually like just
like
we're pretty confident about that that i
get it in the spec now
my hot takes on this right now not
having
have rediscussed the question with
anybody recently so like
just claimed um i would go ahead and use
the canonical
sorting that is defined by the seahorse
spec right now
even though almost none of us in this
call me included
like it very much i would stick with it
that's what we originally specified
seabor to be
yeah i feel like i feel like we're stuck
with it at this point
yeah i think it's a worse stuck with it
thing so you might as well
keep with it um i'm thinking most of the
properties that show up in this did spec
are known in advance anyway
right so it's also we're not sorting
anybody's random string keys here
are we well not yet uh right now it's
i'm using
utf-8 keys utf
utf-8 strings as keys full stop which
case that
but there there is a a movement towards
something called sebor ld
seabord link data where you use an
external dictionary
and the order that based on that
ordering of the dictionary
in which case you could use ins as keys
uh so
um
so that that and that's uh i put a
placeholder in
in the spec for uh
uh how to use tags to do this
in the seaboard but like most of it is
to get to that cos a sine thing we
talked about before which is that
basically i have a cid
that i physically and that cid is raw
cbor or
or a payload that basically is signed
with uh
as the payload prepended with tag 42. so
it's mostly it's just with trying to get
this to
candidate recommendation and i'm the
only one who's working on i see more
stuff and i think i mentioned
uh jim shad died just uh last week and
he was gonna help me with some of this
um
making sure that he reviewed it he's the
seabor expert
um no i think you're on the right track
go with
the utf-8 string keys like you're doing
sounds good to me
that is the thing that we are the most
confident will be the least trouble for
any of our existing code to work with
and should be the case for ever
and um i would stick with the sorting
algorithm that is specified by that
original seaboard rfc even if it makes
us sad
we have already committed to it in the
past ship sailed
it's fine we're going to live with it
and one thing i would recommend
is take a look at the cddl the concise
data dictionary language your data
definition language
i've been using it and i've um prefer
baking that as being the abstract data
model to actually get to
um lossless conversion between json and
and cbore
uh so i've been writing a lot of it now
and actually makes sense we're actually
i can you can have it optional prepended
with a tag although dag keyboard doesn't
use
the tags other than 42 and so um
i've took the time to learn it and
actually it's uh pretty robust
in fact a lot of iatf full
specifications are moving towards
um cddl including if you guys remember
jim pick and uh the woman from google
presented the
sxg uh signed http
payloads and she wrote all that in cdl
which is pretty cool
all right we are hitting the one hour
mark and so i posted in the chat the
link to this zebra spec where we
specified the stone order so
yeah awesome yeah um
i actually wasn't aware of that we so
clearly specified that's cool
um yeah so yeah is there anything else
but i so i don't want to run over but if
there's anything urgent
then no it doesn't seem so then
um thanks everyone and see you all next
week goodbye everyone